Name: Suyog Joshi

Career Summary:
1) Software engineer with 21 years of experience in product companies, developing market leading
software in payment and banking domains.
2) Led team of up to 20 software engineers to deliver expected outcome
3) Expertise in software architecture and development of REST microservices on Java tech stack
4) Able to communicate well among stakeholders and keep the team motivated
5)Works with passion, transparency and leading by example

Work Experience:
Currently working as Consulting Practice Manager at Oracle Financial Services Software Ltd 
since 17-July-2025. 

Earlier, worked at Mastercard as Principal Software Engineer from 2024 till April 2025. 
In this role, primarily delivered following:
1) Architected a solution to automate the customer onboarding process to improve efficiency and
customer experience. Used Event Driven Architecture for this purpose.
2) Contributed to re-architecting of cross border services platform from monolithic to micro-services
architecture.

Prior to this role, worked at Mastercard as Director, Software Engineering 
from March 2022 to May 2024. In this role, delivered following 
1) Acted as subject matter expert (SME) for the Cross Border Services APIs stack
2) Build a team of engineers to take handover and ownership of customer onboarding solution from a
vendor. This involved upskilling myself and the team on new technologies such as Python and Odoo.
Successful completion of this project helped Mastercard to significantly reduce costs and vendor risks.
3) Recruited two managers and 10+ team members to lead three squads (20~ members) to deliver
product enhancements.

Prior to this role, worked at Mastercard as Manager, Software Engineering from 
May 2018 to March 2022. In this role, mainly delivered following:
1) Led two Agile teams to deliver new features and enhancements to the Cross Border Services APIs and
customer care portal
2) Tech stack included Java, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)
3) Regularly involved in hiring right talent for the team and company

Before this, worked at Oracle Financial Services Software Ltd (abbreviated as OFSS) as Senior Manager, Software Engineering 
from January 2015 till May 2018. In this role, mainly delivered following: 
1) Led a team of about 10 developers to rearchitect, develop and deliver Trade Finance module of the
Oracle Banking Digital Experience product. This included various capabilities offered to corporate
customers such as Letter of Credit (LC) and Bank Guarantee (BG)
2) Hired and maintained team strength of about two agile teams in Pune office and led this unit to deliver
various product releases

Before this role, worked at OFSS as Manager, Software Engineering from 
January 2012 to January 2015. In this role, primarily delivered following:
1) FLEXCUBE Direct Banking was newly introducing mobile banking capabilities. I led a team of about 12
people to develop and deliver mobile banking solution across Android, iOS, Blackberry, Symbian
2) Recruited team having C# expertise, upskilled some folks on Android and delivered the solution within
given timeframe.

Before this, worked at OFSS as a Lead Software Engineer from January 2010 till January 2012. 
In this role, mainly delivered following:
1) Led a team of about 6 people to develop various channel banking solutions as part of FLEXCUBE Direct
Banking product
2) This includes solutions related to retail banking, corporate banking, personal finance etc.

Before this role, worked at OFSS in various roles such as Associate Engineer, Engineer and Senior Engineer between 
February 2005 and January 2010. Important deliverables in these roles can be summarized as: 
1) Developed Mutual Funds module of FLEXCUBE Direct Banking (FCDB) using Java, J2EE stack
2) Implemented this module at HDFC Bank and it is still a part of its Internet Banking
3) Did various implementations of FCDB at HDFC Bank including the first implementation of RTGS funds
transfer module at HDFC Bank
4) Single handedly Implemented FCDB product in Banco Espirito Santo (BES), Lisbon, Portugal.

And prior to this role, in first professional experience, worked at Advanced Data Systems Pvt Ltd 
as a Associate Engineer from January 2004 – February 2005. In this role, mainly worked on 
development and implementation of Loan Tracking System at HSBC Bank, Mumbai 
using Java, JSP, Servlets.

Technical skills and Abilities:
1) Software Architecture, Design Patterns
2) Software Resiliency, high availability, performance, logging, alerts and monitoring
3) Java, J2EE tech stack
4) Exposure to Spring, Springboot, Hibernate
5) REST API development, adherence to gold standards
6) Database – Oracle, Postgres, MS SQL
7) Software Quality Assurance
8) CI/CD – Git, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Helm charts
9) Exposure to cloud tech – Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)
10) Software security – Checkmarx, Sonarqube, Blackduck

Other skills and experience:
1) Leadership in software engineering
2) People Management
3) Project Management using ALM Rally, JIRA
4) Agile Scrum, SAFe frameworks

Educational Details:
Completed graduation in Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering from Shivajirao S 
Jondhale College of Engineering, which is affiliated to Mumbai University. Did this 
engineering from June 1999 to June 2003. Scored First Class with 65.03% of marks.

Before that, did HSC i.e. Higher Secondary from Tilaknagar Vidyamandir, Dombivli 
affiliated with Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Did 
this HSC from yeat 1997 till year 1999 and scored a Distinction with 84.17% marks.

Before that, did SSC from Swami Vivekanand Vidyamandir, Dombivli affiliated with 
Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Passed SSC in the year 
1997 with a distinction and 80.66% marks.

Hobbies:
My hobbies include home gardening, reading, outing etc.

Currently learning MERN stack, which is a modern stack for web based application 
development.
Also, enrolled for a Post Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intillegence and Data Science.
This is a 18 month part time course offered by the Indian Institute of 
Technology (IIT) Bombay.

LinkedIn profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/suyog-joshi/
